Francine Lee
Research + Design
I design experiences for people. (what does that mean?!)

My design process combines user research and product design:


Highlights

This process post is the most thorough of my publicly shareable work. It reimagines the Dropbox Photos experience in a full design cycle: starting with user research, to experience design, to UI prototyping. As featured in Fast.Co Design, Smashing Magazine, and Medium's Top 100. 

Uber x 3 Million
UX Design

As the sole design resource on a team of 6, I led the experience design and visual production on a new growth campaign. We created the referral cards you might see in Uber rides today. With 3 weeks, we started with an idea, made quick design iterations based on user research and pilot tests, and finished with what’s now one of the highest-performing growth campaigns in the company — and 3 million prints of my work adopted across the country. 


Twitch One-Pager
UX Design
I consulted with the data science team of 4 to design a solution for their recruiting needs. After 2 weeks, we launched a microsite specific to the team, which [] inspired other teams across the company to create their own microsites, and the data science team exceeded their hiring goals by 200%. 

Dropbox's Core Features
User Research

At Dropbox, I managed research for our Search, Sharing, and growth campaigns. Once we scoped the type of research as either exploratory or confirmatory, we drafted and executed an appropriate methodology given the constraints and research goal. 

I also designed the first research artifact for our team -- a poster intended to increase awareness about our new team and the insights we uncovered. 

Unofficially, I've also written a process post that reimagines the Dropbox Photos experience in a full design cycle: starting with user research, to experience design, to UI prototyping. As featured in Fast.Co Design, Smashing Magazine, and Medium's Top 100. 

Side Thrills
Throwback to the first website I hacked together during a college break: wwww.willworkforamac.com. Definitely not responsive. but it was a successful social experiment + coding challenge in fundraising for my first Macbook. Later, I graduated to frameworks like Bootstrap and Bourbon/Neat, winning an education hackathon with a mentorship platform and later Yammer's Enterprise hackathon with a data visualization app. Not bad, Ma! 


Stuff I'm interested In
CONNECT

Advising

Speaking

Elsewhere
dribbble - View more visual work
linkedin - Professional jibjab
twitter - Stay in touch. Tea?
francinelee.ivc@gmail.com


About
I don't have a formal design education -- I learned a lot of my craft from the Internet (thank you, Photoshop tutorials on Youtube!). I think it's crazy (good) that so many people freely share their knowledge on the Internet, and that others can benefit from that, and learn a craft or an entire career from it. I'm thankful for alternatives to traditional academia because it's how I've forged my design career - and I want to help other people do it better. 

1. Always be learning
2. People


Advising
I've got an open ear to interesting causes, especially in the education space. As it is, I mentor part-time at DesignLab, in its Design 101 course (visual fundamentals in color theory, grids, typography) and UX Research and Strategy course (methodologies and artifacts in user research).


Speaking
Sharing is a Springboard, Github 2014
Publishing on the Internet is an avenue to connect with others on content.

UX + Visual, Thoughtbot 2014
My design process that combines research + design, and my favorite tools for it.

Quick and Dirty User Research, Parisoma 2015
The value of user research, and some ways you can inject lightweight research to your team.



francinelee.ivc@gmail.com
dribbble
twitter
linkedin

Always Learning
2015 - I haven't travelled abroad much. I don't understand other cultures. I hope to live in different environments for a bit and see. Not really sure what to expect, just want to understand something by the end of it. 
People First


The Short:

Francine Lee
Research + Design at Uber, Twitch, Dropbox, and DesignerFund. 
Mentor at DesignLab



user research 

1. draft
2. user research cheat sheet
3. providing context on what the overarching process is .. 
confusing for ppl who don't know who it is.. 
- might be more appealing to know they are attending a series .. classes put together

eventbrite -- 


1.
2.
3. 

-- instagramming mission? 